These 11 Instagram real ideas are almost
guaranteed to go viral. I can't make any
100% promises, but if you experiment
with all 11 of these different ideas, I
bet that you will have some success in
getting more views, followers, and
customers from your Instagram. And let's
not waste any time. Let's get right into
it with idea number one, which is
actually a call back to my 2026
Instagram predictions, which if you
haven't watched that episode already, I
highly encourage you to do so because I
outline all of my big predictions and
things that I think are going to change
and take place not just on Instagram,
but across all of social media in the
coming year so that hopefully if you
watch that episode, you can be a little
bit more prepared and you can stay ahead
of the game. But one of my big
predictions to spoil a little bit of
what is in that episode is that series
and challenges are going to become super
popular on Instagram. Now, I think that
by the end of 2026, series and
challenges could be losing their
popularity because if everyone adopts
them, or at least a lot of people adopt
them in the way that I anticipate, then
it might become something that is
overdone, something that has kind of
lost its luster. But you're watching
this hopefully at the beginning of 2026.
You're watching this hopefully at a time
where challenges and series haven't been
overdone. When I say challenges and
series, I essentially mean posts that
are day blank of doing blank every day
until blank. Essentially picking
something that is super hard. And that's
what I want you to do. I want you to
think about what is something that is
really challenging that I could set out
to do for myself.
>> This is day one of finger surfing every
day until my business blows up. Today
I'm going to be using this yellow
lightning board that I made just last
night. And if you want to get a board
all to yourself, make sure you go check
out payhip.com/justevely.
They're only $15 each and they are the
sickest thing ever.
[music]
This isn't necessarily a challenge that
you are inviting other people to do with
you. This isn't necessarily something
that you are trying to get the bigger
community to participate in. This is
just something that you are doing for
yourself personally. And I'm not saying
you need to be extreme. I'm not saying
you need to be dangerous. I'm not saying
you need to do something that is harmful
for your physical or mental health or
for anyone around you. But the more
challenging you make it, the more likely
people are to actually care, to actually
want to follow, to actually engage and
want to keep coming back for each
subsequent day in the series. I've seen
some extreme examples in 2025, including
Gage, who is running a mile for every
follower that he gains. Now, because of
this challenge, he's gained over a
million followers, not just on
Instagram, but also on Tik Tok and on
YouTube. And so, theoretically, if he
held true to this challenge, he would
have to run 3 million miles. He has
admitted that that's probably
impossible, and he's never probably
going to reach 3 million miles, which of
course is a number that keeps growing as
he gets more followers. So instead, he
has slightly now modified the challenge
to basically just running as much as he
can. He's usually running at least four
miles every single day. He's lost over
100 lbs. He has run thousands of miles,
and he's totally changed his life for
the better, and he's continuing to grow
his platform and use it for good.
Another absolutely wild example of one
of these challenges is a guy who is
doing a one-year in isolation challenge.
He has the full details and all of his
rules on his Instagram, but essentially
he's going to spend an entire year, 365
days, locked in a room. He has rules
like no drugs and alcohol, no outside
visitors. He has of course exceptions
for emergency, but basically for one
year, he is going to try to isolate
almost like Buddhist monk style, not
talking to anyone, not interacting with
anyone and challenge himself to do
different physical challenges and
different mental things along the way.
And again, I'm not saying that you have
to go that extreme, but I am giving you
those examples because if your challenge
is trying a new salad recipe every day
for 30 days, it's not going to be very
engaging. And so, I really want you to
think of what is something that is
challenging. What is something that I
could do that is really tough? An idea
that I recently gave to one of my
clients that is a little bit less
extreme yet still challenging and
something that I think will still blow
up her account in the following year is
to take her physical product which her
physical product her invention is a
workout apparatus. It's something that
you can use to exercise from home and I
challenged her to create a challenge
herself where every single day she's
going to do one new exercise, one new
workout in a new location. And she's
going to do this to also kind of show
off the fact that this invention that
she created can be taken anywhere and
it's easy to transport and you can work
out with this thing from a Target
parking lot or your garage or wherever,
the beach, the park, whatever. And
again, it's something that's hard to do.
It's something that as the days go on,
she's going to be working out in crazy
locations. She's going to be doing a
different exercise. It's going to show
consistency. It's going to show her
followers and her viewers how easy it is
to transport this thing and use it from
anywhere. And I bet it's going to blow
up her account. Personally, I'm going to
be starting a challenge on my Instagram,
which actually at the time that you're
viewing this, I might already be a few
days into the challenge. So, definitely
go check out my Instagram, Brock Leven
Johnson, to see if this challenge is
actually ongoing, if I'm actually true
to my word. But essentially what I'm
going to be doing is challenging myself
to write down the names of every single
person who follows me every single day.
Day one of reading the names of every
person who follows me until I hit 1
million followers.
Jaw_nari
n_bro 2.0.
Day one of this challenge and I had
exactly 1,000 followers gained
yesterday. So I exported them all into a
single Google sheet and then I read them
off one by one. And let me tell you,
there are some interesting usernames in
this list. But all jokes aside, I'm
going to be reading off every single
name of every single person who follows
me until I reach 1 million as a
challenge for myself and a way to remind
myself and all of you that every single
follower is a real person who matters.
It's not just a number on a screen.
Erica Merrily_XO,
Prime Jin Woo, Captain Catherric
official 143.
That's day one complete. Thank you so
much to everyone who followed. See you
on day two.
>> If I get 250 followers in a day and it
takes me about 10 seconds to write down
each of their names, well then that's
going to take me 40 minutes to write
down all of their usernames. And so if
you multiply that, suddenly I'm getting
maybe thousands of followers in a day.
This could really add up. But I'm doing
this challenge because I think it'll be
really cool to see all of these names
written down on a single piece of paper.
And of course, I'm going to be doing
this goal until I reach 1 million
followers, which that's going to be a
lot of names to be written down because
at the time of recording this, I have
less than 850,000 followers. So, that
means easy math. I'm going to have to
gain over 150,000 followers. I'm going
to have to write down over 150,000
names. And when you factor in how many
people are going to unfollow me during
this period, it's likely that I'm going
to have to write down over 200,000
names, which as I'm saying that out
loud, I'm realizing how insane that's
going to be. But if I can achieve this,
if I can follow through on this
challenge, I think it's going to
accelerate my account to over 1 million
followers in a relatively short amount
of time. I wouldn't be surprised if I
hit 1 [clears throat] million followers
before the 90day mark of this personal
challenge.
But again, this first viral idea is
essentially to come up with some sort of
series or challenge that you can do on
your account to challenge yourself and
encourage people to stick around and pay
attention. And the final thing that I
will say about these challenges is you
want to make sure that they are related
to your niche. You don't want to just do
some random challenge, some random thing
that's hard. I'm all for challenging
yourself. I'm all for personal
development. But if you were to do a
challenge that's unrelated to your
niche, then you're going to generate a
bunch of viewers and an audience from
people who isn't actually ever
interested in sticking around in
becoming a fan or becoming a customer.
Like if I was to do a run a mile a day
challenge, then I would generate
probably a bunch of people who are into
fitness or people who are into running
or maybe people who are into like
physical extreme challenges. I wouldn't
probably get that many people who are
specifically interested in growing a
business on social media, which is
exactly what I do for a living. Which,
by the way, if you haven't subscribed
already, before we continue with the
following 10 viral real ideas, I want
you to press subscribe right now because
we're making some really big changes,
some really big upgrades to the podcast
in 2026. And one of them is not what
you're seeing on the screen right now.
Right now, at the time of recording
this, I'm not in my home office. I'm not
at my home setup. I'm actually visiting
my family in Southern California. And
so, I'm literally filming this in a
random room in a wei work that I rented
out for the day. I want that to be proof
to you that it doesn't matter your
setup. It doesn't matter your
environment. Everything is figure
outable. You can achieve anything. You
can figure out a way to success no
matter what your thing is. Make sure you
hit that subscribe button because we
have some really exciting things planned
for 2026. But let's get back into the
viral video ideas. Viral Instagram real
idea number two is what I like to call
hook swaps. Hook swaps are essentially
taking a already viral clip. Maybe it is
someone throwing a toilet paper roll out
of an airplane. Maybe it's someone
trying to jump over a traffic cone, but
slipping and landing right on top of the
cone. Taking that already existing viral
clip, playing that for the first few
seconds of your video, and then
seamlessly transitioning or swapping, if
you will, into the rest of your reel,
whether it's a B-roll reel, talking head
reel, whatever it may be. The key
element for a hook swap reel is
achieving what's called a match cut. A
match cut is a cinematography term, an
editing term that basically means the
last frame or the ending of your first
clip visually matches the beginning of
your second clip. So that initial clip,
which is the viral pre-existing hook,
whatever the last scene looks like, pay
attention to the shapes of it. Right? If
there is a toilet paper roll being
thrown out of a plane, there needs to be
a toilet paper roll at the beginning of
the second clip. If there is someone
jumping over a traffic cone and landing
on it, then the beginning of the second
clip needs to look like someone has just
landed on a traffic cone. Or if someone
falls to the ground at the end of the
first clip, the beginning of the second
clip needs to begin with someone getting
up off the ground or finishing the fall
onto the ground themselves. Pay
attention to the shapes. Pay attention
to the images. Pay attention to the
layout, the camera angle, and those
certain things to achieve a more
seamless match cut. But to take this a
step further, because I have talked
about hook swaps before, I believe that
a really powerful growth hack in 2026
will be not just using pre-existing
viral hooks, but actually creating your
own viral hooks. One of my favorite
creators who is doing this consistently
is Citizen the Artist. Citizen, the
artist is a musician who admittedly,
like a lot of other musicians on
Instagram, struggles to get attention on
their music because a lot of musicians
are just posting clips of their songs,
posting clips of their music videos. And
unless you're a Taylor Swift, unless
you're someone who has just like already
a huge loyal fan base, it can be tough
because people are watching dopamine
video after dopamine video and now
you're expecting them to stop and watch
your music video and maybe they've never
heard you or your songs before.
Similarly, you as a business owner or
someone with a personal brand, you're
expecting a complete stranger to stop
their scroll, stop their constant flood
of dopamine and watch your full
educational reel or your sales pitch,
your advertisement, your promo, whatever
it may be. Instead, I want you to create
your own version of one of these viral
hooks and then seamlessly use a match
cut to swap into the rest of your reel.
And if you want a free library of 40 of
these pre-existing viral videos, just DM
me on Instagram. Go to my Instagram,
Brock Leven Johnson, and send me a
message that just says the word swap,
swap, and when you say that word, I will
send you a follow-up message so that you
can get 40 of these transitional hook
videos completely free. Viral real idea
number three is taking a nap, posting a
niche adjacent post. That's what NAP
stands for, niche adjacent post. And
what a niche adjacent post is is it's a
way to tap into a broader audience who
might not instinctually be interested in
your content. They might not be
searching out your posts, but they would
be interested. And this relies on the
Tik Tockification of Instagram and of
social media more broadly where most
algorithms nowadays are trained to show
you content that it they believe you
would be interested in. So essentially
the Instagram algorithm is constantly
trying to predict what are you into
right now and then let's show you
content that's related to that topic. So
likely a week ago a lot of you were
seeing Stranger Things posts on your
Instagram feed. With the end of the
final season of Stranger Things coming
out around December 24th, 25th, and the
new year, people were watching Stranger
Things, talking about Stranger Things,
and consuming Stranger Things content.
And so, I would be willing to bet a lot
of you who are watching today's episode
got served with Stranger Things content.
The idea of taking a nap would
essentially be relating whatever is
going on in pop culture, whatever's in
the news, whatever everyone is talking
about, and connecting it back to your
niche. So, to use Stranger Things as an
example, maybe you have absolutely
nothing to do with sci-fi. Maybe you
have nothing to do with the show
Stranger Things, but you are a
hairdresser. You're a hair stylist.
You're someone who sells hair care
products. And so, you're going to take
screenshots of the different Stranger
Things characters, and you're going to
talk about how their hair was done. Or
maybe you're going to talk about how the
hairstyles in the show were so true to
the 80s. Maybe you're going to talk
about how some of the hairstyles that
are in the show that were popular in the
80s have come back around and they're
popular again in 2026 and how some of
the other hairstyles are definitely not
popular in 2026. Again, what this will
do is it will show your content to
people who might not normally be looking
for hair stylist content, who might not
normally be looking for hair care tips,
but that is kind of one of their fringe
interests. Maybe that is something that
they occasionally look up or they're
occasionally searching for, but right
now they're primarily watching Stranger
Things posts. They're primarily
consuming content about Stranger Things.
Well, now they're seeing your post that
is still pretty much about Stranger
Things, but it's connecting back to your
niche. So again, it's a way to tap into
this broader audience who has a more
diverse interest and bring in some of
them back to your page because
ultimately there are going to be some
people who follow you, who click on your
profile, and become customers from
taking a nap. Viral reel idea number
four is what I like to call the this or
that style reels. Essentially, these
reels are going to be split in half down
the middle with a similar or maybe even
an identical video on the top half and
the bottom half. Then what you're going
to do is label each situation. And
there's two different ways that you
could approach this. Number one is you
could have slightly different videos on
the top half and the bottom half. Let's
say, for example, you are a fitness
expert. The top half could have a video
of someone walking into the kitchen,
grabbing a pre-made protein shake, and
walking out. The bottom video could have
a very similar clip, same framing, same
lighting, everything, and have someone
walk into the frame, but they open the
fridge and there's no pre-made protein
shake. And so, they opt to grab some
candy and then they leave the frame. So,
the videos are very similar with one
minor difference. And then maybe you're
going to label the top video prepared
morning and the bottom video unprepared
morning. These videos often go viral for
a few reasons. Number one, people are
often going to watch the video from
start to finish twice because each clip
is playing at the same time. They'll
usually watch the top clip and then
they'll watch the reel again a second
time to watch the bottom clip. Often
times it can also be kind of like one of
those games that used to see, you know,
like in magazines where it would be like
find the difference between these two
images. And so people are going to watch
each video trying to spot what is
different or what is distinct. Now I
told you that there are two different
ways that you can create these. The
second version of this style of reel is
where you have an exact same video, the
identical video top and bottom. And
what's different here is the text. So
I've done this example plenty of times
where essentially I'll take some random
clip of myself. I'll have the exact same
clip on the top and the bottom, but then
I will label it differently. So maybe
the top clip is saying my life when I go
viral, and the bottom clip is my life
when I don't go viral. or the top clip
says my life when I make a sale. And the
bottom clip says my life when I don't
make a sale. And basically what I'm
saying is it's a word of inspiration,
right? I'm reminding I'm motivating my
audience saying that whether you go
viral or make a sale or not, your life
isn't going to change. It's not going to
be all that different. You're going to
keep on keeping on. It shouldn't affect
your daily routine. So again, two
different styles, but essentially the
same thing where you are splitting the
top half and the bottom half of your
video. These style of videos are very
easy to create regardless of where you
edit. Whether you edit in the edits app
or Cap Cut or even in Canva, these are
relatively easy to make and they can be
made at scale by simply changing out the
text or swapping out different videos.
Viral reel idea number five is one that
might get me a little bit in trouble,
but that's kind of the point of it.
Number five is what I'm going to call
tasteful rage bait. Now, ragebait is a
term that is used to describe content
that is intentionally trying to make
people mad, that is intentionally trying
to get people enraged. I don't want you
to go to that extreme. I don't want you
to get cancelled. I don't want you to
get in any legal trouble. And I don't
want you to literally enrage people. But
what I do want you to do is tastefully
include elements in your reel that get
people talking. Some things that I do
completely unintentionally all the time
to generate this is typos. Now, I never
intentionally include typos. I need to
go on the record of saying that. I never
have intentionally misspelled a word or
misused grammar in any of my posts, but
at the same time, I am notorious for
doing so. I am notorious for having
misspelled words and having, you know,
poorly used grammar in my posts. And I
usually just attribute that to speed. I
am so focused on creating posts on
creating my next post on getting the
posts out there and published that there
are typos and there are mistakes. They
oftentimes happen when I am making a
post that is uh you know breaking news
or that is something that needs to be
really quickly made or or posted today
and I end up making a typo or having a
spelling error. And guess what? There
will be a bunch of grammar police and
spelling police who are in my comments
correcting me. And that's fine. And
again, I'm not intentionally doing that,
but I'm giving you that as an example as
to how you can tastefully include these
elements in your reel. One example that
I recently posted that was intentional
was I posted this overhead view of a big
crowd. I believe it was like before the
LA Marathon and there was tens of
thousands I think over 30,000 people in
this video and someone took like a
panning shot of the crowd and I labeled
it saying something like the next time
you're upset because you only got 300
views on your reel, remember that this
is what 300 viewers looks like. It was
kind of a play on a previously posted
inspirational post that many people have
now copied now that is essentially, hey,
the next time you're sad about getting a
thousand views, remember that this is
what a,000 people looks like. And it can
be very inspirational. But what I did is
I kind of flipped it on its head by
making a little joke. Obviously, there
are more than 300 people in this video.
And I am not dumb. I'm not actually
estimating that there are 300 people.
I'm being sarcastic. I'm making a joke.
And the biggest point is that I'm making
a joke that's at no one's expense. No
one is harmed. No one is actually going
to get enraged. But the comment section
below that post were filled with a lot
of people who were like, "There's
definitely more than 300 people. You
need to recount. You need to get your
eyes checked. There's way more than 300
people." And they were a little bit mad
at me. And then the rest of the comments
were people who got the joke. They were
like, "Actually, Brock, I think there's
299." "Actually, Brock, there's actually
301." or yep, I'm a expert in counting
and that is exactly 300 people. So, they
were kind of playing along with me. But
the point was just that it's
light-hearted, it's fun, and it is
intentionally getting people to react.
One other way that I have seen a lot of
people do this is they will include a
hidden element in the background of
their reel. Maybe there is a silly prop,
maybe there is a photo on the wall,
maybe there is a penguin walking through
the background of their video, but just
including these little elements that
most people are not going to notice. And
the few who do notice, or maybe there's
a lot of people who are going to notice,
they're going to comment. Again, you're
not intentionally enraging anyone.
You're not taking this to the point
where it's extreme or hurtful, but it's
just a little light-hearted fun. This is
day four of testing unethical ways to
make money online. Today, we've got
selling bull artworks on Facebook. So,
where do we start? Well, first off, let
me say I'm not much of an artist. A
couple of years ago, I was doing this
exact same method and making a killing
doing it. It all started at Kmart where
I'd quickly buy up any prints that they
had on clearance. After that, you want
to stop by Bunnings and pick up a big
bucket of joint compound. $60 sounds
expensive, but this will make you about
20 artworks. Now, it's time for the fun
part. Slap on a large helping of your
joint compound on top of that canvas you
bought. Let your imagination run free.
There's no rhyme or rhythm to this.
Trust me, I would even use my fingers to
just smear this stuff all around the
canvas. Once you're satisfied, let it
dry. And then it's time to stage the
photo. Position your new artwork nicely
on the wall and take some highquality
photos to make sure your listing gets
seen. And that's all there is to it.
slap this on Facebook Marketplace and
wait for the DMs to start rolling in
from middle-ag marks. I can't even tell
you how many of these I sold at an
average of 250 to $300 a piece for
around 10 minutes worth. I test new
methods like this every single week. So,
if you have something you want me to
test, drop it in the comments or comment
Discord and I'll add you to the
community. Idea number six is what I'm
calling the silent audio trend where
essentially you intentionally mute your
video at a certain point or maybe the
entire time in order to again have a
little bit of light-hearted fun with
your audience. One example of this that
I have previously posted was I posted a
real of myself with no audio, right? I
was talking to the camera, but it was
completely muted. And I added text onto
the screen that said something along the
lines of only really ugly business
owners can hear this Instagram tip or
Instagram tips that only really ugly
business owners can hear. I'm making a
joke that no one can hear it, right?
It's completely muted. And so I'm making
a joke that everyone who's watching is
not ugly. So it's lighthearted. It's at
no one's expense. And it's just a fun
way to play around with people's
expectations. Also, recently I posted a
real where I said, "Stop listening to
advice from Instagram gurus." And then I
kept talking, but after that point, I
muted myself. Stop listening to the
Instagram gurus.
So, I was kind of making a joke that you
should stop listening to me. I think
that there are creative ways that you
could use this in your niche. Like let's
say you are a recipe creator. You could
say, "Here's a recipe that only ugly
people can hear and then you're going to
tell people what the recipe is, but the
entire reel is muted." Or you're going
to post a video of yourself that says,
"Stop listening to snowboarding advice
from yoga instructors." And then you're
going to keep talking, but the rest of
your reel is muted. So again, it's just
light-hearted fun and it's a way to get
people to interact that is outside of
the norm and outside of what they would
expect. Number seven is essentially
creating a list of 2026 ins versus outs.
Ins are of course things that are going
to be popular, things that relate to
your niche that are going to be embraced
or that you hope are going to be
embraced in 2026. Trends, maybe fads,
maybe mindsets, maybe practices, maybe
strategies, whatever. Just pick some
things that are related to your niche
that you believe or that you hope are
going to be in in the coming year and
then make a list of them. And then add
another list that's right next to it
that is 2026 outs. Things that you think
or you hope or that you believe are
going to fade in popularity or become
less common or not the norm in 2026.
This can be a great way to establish
your authority and your credibility. And
it can also be a really great way to
create shareworthy posts because if your
viewers agree with you, they're going to
share your post. They're going to
amplify your message saying, "Yeah, I
hope these are some of the things that
are out versus in in 2026." Again, super
super easy to make whether you're in
Canva, Cap Cut, edits, whatever. All you
have to do is add two different columns
of text, put a line down the middle, and
then label it. Put a title at the top of
the video that says 2026 predictions or
2026 trends or 2026 trends in and then
insert your niche or industry. Super
easy to create. The background could
just be a solid white background or it
could be a B-roll video of yourself.
Idea number eight is super easy to
create. And yes, that rhymed. And yes,
that was intentional. And yes, that was
about the eighth time that I have said
that line because I keep saying it
wrong. But essentially, idea number
eight is what I like to call the award.
The award is a post that I have done.
It's a reel that I have reused dozens of
times and it consistently is one of my
best performing posts. Essentially, the
idea with the award is you just film a
super short video of yourself holding up
a trophy. Now, it could be a literal
trophy if you have any of those laying
around, or you could just use an emoji
of a trophy, which is what I do. Then,
save this video to your device because
you're going to want to save this and
use it over and over again in the
future. How you're going to use it is
you're going to add any random audio
into the background. It doesn't really
matter, but you're going to change the
text on the screen. And every time you
post this, essentially, you're going to
give the award to a different group of
people. I oftentimes use this post to
give an award to people who haven't done
a certain trend that's super popular.
Maybe they haven't bought a Laboo or
they haven't tried Dubai chocolate. But
you could give this award to anyone
relating to your niche. It could be an
actual sentimental reward, like someone
who actually needs one, like this reward
is presented to any mom who is running
her small business because Lord knows
how you're able to juggle everything. Or
it could be something that's a little
bit more funny and light-hearted, like
this award goes to any runner who made
it through all of 2025 without pulling a
muscle or warming up for their runs.
Again, easy to make, easy to repeat, and
oftentimes a very viral format because
it's super shareworthy. Idea number nine
is what I call the partner's POV. And
yes, this will require you to have a
separate person. So maybe it's a loved
one, a partner, a housemate, a
colleague, or maybe you're going to go
on Facebook or Craigslist and put out a
help wanted ad for a local filmer in
your area. Uh just be safe if you're
going to go that route. But essentially,
for this style of reel, it's going to be
from the point of view of someone else
talking to you. So, the video is going
to begin with them saying, "Wait, tell
them what you just told me." Or you
could make it more specific with, "Wait,
tell them what you just told me about
showing up on Google searches. Wait,
growing on Instagram. Wait, tell them
what you just told me about becoming a
better snowboarder." They're going to
say something like that. And they're
going to film you or they're going to
move towards you with the camera. So,
again, it looks like it's from their
point of view. It's just a way to create
interest and then set you up to say
whatever it is you want to say. So, you
could use this hook as a way to share a
talking head reel, give a tip, tell a
story, give an inspirational message,
whatever it may be. It's really just
this hook that is essential for this
format.
>> Wait, tell them what you just told me.
>> Okay, so you know how people always say
that they don't have enough followers or
engagement to use DM automation, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Well, that logic doesn't really
make sense because DM automation has
been shown to increase engagement. So,
the less followers and engagement you
have, the more you need it.
>> Okay. Okay, so what should they do?
>> Just comment chat and then get signed up
for free.
>> I've also found it very helpful to add
text onto the screen to make it look
like this was filmed in Snapchat. For
whatever reason, people have a
subconscious bias or belief that content
that was filmed in Snapchat is more real
or more authentic or more genuine, not
knowing that obviously it's super easy
to fake content and make it look like it
was filmed in Snapchat. But basically,
if you have this black bar that goes all
the way across the screen with this thin
white font on top of it and you say
something like, "I can't believe he said
this," or, "This blew my mind," or
"Watch till the end." Something like
that, it encourages people to continue
watching, and it just makes your reel
feel that much more authentic and
genuine, which helps kind of play into
the scenario that you've set up, the
skit that you've made with the hook,
where you again are saying, "I can't
believe what he just told me." Wait,
wait, wait. Honey, say that again. Wait,
wait, wait. Say that again. Wait, wait,
wait. Tell them what you just told me
about blank. Idea number 10 is what I
call delayed gratification trends. Now,
of course, on Instagram, we are so used
to instant gratification. People need
strong hooks. They need to have their
attention grabbed within the first few
frames of your video. And yes, all that
is true. But every once in a while,
there are trends that delay that climax,
that delay that most important moment.
And because these trends are already
popular, people know to stick around.
They know to wait for that moment. They
know to wait because they've seen 70
other examples of this trend. They know
to wait till the end. One of the most
all-time infamous examples is the oh no
song where it slowly builds up and it's
like oh no, oh no, no, no, no, no. And
we know when we see those videos or a
video that uses that song to keep
watching because something bad is about
to happen. there's going to be some slip
or some fall or some blooper moment that
we should stick around for. But there
are trends like this that pop up all the
time. And so, while I can't give you one
that is definitely trending right now at
the time that you're recording this, I
will play a few on the screen. And I
want to leave you with the general tip
or encouragement to look for these
trends. Look for the sort of trends
where there's a delayed gratification,
where the hook or the exciting part
isn't at the very beginning of the reel.
you have to kind of wait a few seconds
for it to appear because these trends
are kind of a trend within themselves.
They're a trend that's not just going to
work just like any trend would work.
They are specifically proven to work
because they increase people's watch
time. They get them to stop their scroll
and stick around with your reel a little
bit longer. So, the next time you're
scrolling through Instagram or Tik Tok
or wherever, just keep an ear out for
any sort of trend or song that matches
this pattern. And then before we get to
the last idea, I do want to ask you one
last time to hit that subscribe button.
And if you have enjoyed today's episode,
press the thumbs up button. And if you
have loved today's episode and you
thought this was so helpful and you
can't wait to try some of these,
consider pressing that hype button. It's
a relatively new button on Instagram
that not many people know about or have
even pressed. But when you hype a video
by pressing the hype button, it kind of
like boosts it. It's kind of like a way
to tell the YouTube algorithm, "Hey,
this video was really good. Let's help
more people see it." So, if you want to
do any of those things, if you do do any
of those things, I super flipping
appreciate you big time. But idea number
11, my last idea for you today is every
generation blank or how every generation
blanks. Essentially, this is playing on
how each generation does things
differently in different niches. How
every generation rock climbs, how every
generation dresses for a day on the
slopes, how every generation posts on
Instagram stories, how every generation
works out at the gym. Using these
different ideas, it gets people watching
because again, going back to idea number
10, it increases their retention because
they want to stick around to see how
each generation does it differently and
to see whether or not you have portrayed
it accurately. There's also a little bit
of tasteful rage bait here where if you
are someone who's in Gen X and you see
the Gen X example, you're either going
to be like, "Oh my gosh, haha, that is
so relatable. That is so me." Or you're
going to be like, "That's not me." And
you're going to comment about how you do
something differently or how your
generation is being portrayed
inaccurately. I've done this style trend
numerous times for myself, originally
with how different generations post on
stories. I've done how different
generations post on Christmas, how
different generations post on Halloween,
and almost every single time it goes
viral and it performs so well. It does
take a little bit more time, energy, and
effort, and it definitely takes some
creativity, but that time, energy, and
effort, and creativity is oftentimes
rewarded. Thank you so much for watching
today. I'll see you next week. And as
always, happy networking.